i hope you will be ready to own publicly whenever you shall
be called to it that by your great and frequent urgency you
prevailed on me to publish a very loose and uncorrect
account of my travels with directions to hire some young
gentleman of either university to put them in order and
correct the style as my cousin dampier did by my advice in
his book called a voyage round the world but i do not
remember i gave you power to consent that any thing should
be omitted and much less that any thing should be inserted
therefore as to the latter i do here renounce every thing of
that kind particularly a paragraph about her majesty queen
anne of most pious and glorious memory although i did
reverence and esteem her more than any of human species but
you or your interpolator ought to have considered that it
was not my inclination so was it not decent to praise any
animal of our composition before my master houyhnhnm and
besides the fact was altogether false for to my knowledge
being in england during some part of her majestys reign she
did govern by a chief minister nay even by two successively
the first whereof was the lord of godolphin and the second
the lord of oxford so that you have made me say the thing
that was not likewise in the account of the academy of
projectors and several passages of my discourse to my master
houyhnhnm you have either omitted some material
circumstances or minced or changed them in such a manner
that i do hardly know my own work when i formerly hinted to
you something of this in a letter you were pleased to answer
that you were afraid of giving offence that people in power
were very watchful over the press and apt not only to
interpret but to punish every thing which looked like an
innuendo as i think you call it but pray how could that
which i spoke so many years ago and at about five thousand
leagues distance in another reign be applied to any of the
yahoos who now are said to govern the herd especially at a
time when i little thought or feared the unhappiness of
living under them have not i the most reason to complain
when i see these very yahoos carried by houyhnhnms in a
vehicle as if they were brutes and those the rational
creatures and indeed to avoid so monstrous and detestable a
sight was one principal motive of my retirement hither
