The author of these Travels Mr Lemuel Gulliver is my ancient
and intimate friend there is likewise some relation between
us on the mothers side About three years ago Mr Gulliver
growing weary of the concourse of curious people coming to
him at his house in Redriff made a small purchase of land
with a convenient house near Newark in Nottinghamshire his
native country where he now lives retired yet in good esteem
among his neighbours

Although Mr Gulliver was born in Nottinghamshire where his
father dwelt yet I have heard him say his family came from
Oxfordshire to confirm which I have observed in the
churchyard at Banbury in that county several tombs and
monuments of the Gullivers

Before he quitted Redriff he left the custody of the
following papers in my hands with the liberty to dispose of
them as I should think fit I have carefully perused them
three times The style is very plain and simple and the only
fault I find is that the author after the manner of
travellers is a little too circumstantial There is an air of
truth apparent through the whole and indeed the author was
so distinguished for his veracity that it became a sort of
proverb among his neighbours at Redriff when any one
affirmed a thing to say it was as true as if Mr Gulliver had
spoken it
