I hope you will be ready to own publicly
whenever you shall be called to it that by
your great and frequent urgency you prevailed
on me to publish a very loose and uncorrect
account of my travels with directions to hire
some young gentleman of either university to
put them in order and correct the style as my
cousin Dampier did by my advice in his book
called A Voyage round the world But I do not
remember I gave you power to consent that any
thing should be omitted and much less that
any thing should be inserted therefore as to
the latter I do here renounce every thing of
that kind particularly a paragraph about her
majesty Queen Anne of most pious and glorious
memory although I did reverence and esteem
her more than any of human species But you or
your interpolator ought to have considered
that it was not my inclination so was it not
decent to praise any animal of our
composition before my master Houyhnhnm And
besides the fact was altogether false for to
my knowledge being in England during some
part of her majestys reign she did govern by
a chief minister nay even by two successively
the first whereof was the lord of Godolphin
and the second the lord of Oxford so that you
have made me say the thing that was not
Likewise in the account of the academy of
projectors and several passages of my
discourse to my master Houyhnhnm you have
either omitted some material circumstances or
minced or changed them in such a manner that
I do hardly know my own work When I formerly
hinted to you something of this in a letter
you were pleased to answer that you were
afraid of giving offence that people in power
were very watchful over the press and apt not
only to interpret but to punish every thing
which looked like an innuendo as I think you
call it But pray how could that which I spoke
so many years ago and at about five thousand
leagues distance in another reign be applied
to any of the Yahoos who now are said to
govern the herd especially at a time when I
little thought or feared the unhappiness of
living under them Have not I the most reason
to complain when I see these very Yahoos
carried by Houyhnhnms in a vehicle as if they
were brutes and those the rational creatures
And indeed to avoid so monstrous and
detestable a sight was one principal motive
of my retirement hither

Thus much I thought proper to tell you in
relation to yourself and to the trust I
reposed in you
